Butter Murukku | Benne Chakkuli Recipe |
Diwali Snacks
Ingredients
Rice flour­ 1 cup
Roasted gram lentil (Hurigadale) ­ 1/2 cup
Butter­ 4 tsp
White Sesame seeds­ 1 tsp
Salt­ 1 tsp
Cooking oil­ Enough for frying
Instructions
Add roasted gram lentils in to dry mixer jar and powder it finely. Sieve and keep it ready.
In a seasoning pan add sesame seeds and roast them till they turn slightly brown. Keep it aside
till use.
In a wide bowl combine rice flour, powdered roasted gram, butter, salt and roasted sesame
seeds. With your hands give a quick stir and combine everything well.
Pour water little by little in to the bowl and mix the flours to form stiff dough.
Take the murukku press with star holed murukku mould and fill the dough up to 3/4th level.
Meanwhile heat a heavy bottom wok/pan adding enough cooking oil for deep frying the
murukku. When the oil gets heated up (drop a pinch of dough in to hot oil, if it raises up to the
surface immediately, then oil is ready for frying.) Press the murukku directly in to hot oil in
circular manner. Butter murukku is not shaped in any form. It breaks in to pieces in oil.
Fry them both the sides till they are slightly brown. When the sizzling sound ceases remove
them from oil and drain on kitchen tissue paper. Continue the process with rest of the dough.
When they cool down to room temperature store them in airtight container. Soft, yet crunchy
butter murukku is ready. Enjoy them this Diwali as tea time snack.
The butter and roasted gram powder make these murukku very soft, yet crunchy. That is the
reason, it is not possible to shape them in murukku form.
You can add black sesame seeds instead of white ones.
The dough consistency is vital, if you add more water than needed then dough becomes thin
and murukku drinks lot of water. At the same time they will not retain crunchiness.
If you are a beginner, be careful while pressing murukku directly in to hot oil.
Always fry this murukku in medium flame itself. They remain uncooked in high flame and drink
oil in low flame.
http://udupi­recipes.com/2014/10/butter­murukku­benne­chakkuli­recipe­diwali­snacks.html